docs/configuration/timeline.md, before:

# `timeline`

Configures a `timeline` view used to show the timing sequence of events and
recordings across multiple cameras.

```yaml
timeline:
  # [...]
```

You can interact with the timeline in a number of ways:

- Clicking on an event will take you to the media viewer for that event.
- Clicking on the "background", or a camera title, will take you to the recordings for that camera (seeking to the clicked time).
- Clicking on the time axis will take you to recordings for all cameras (seeking to the clicked time).

| Option                 | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clustering_threshold` | `3`     | The minimum number of overlapping events to allow prior to clustering/grouping them. Higher numbers cause clustering to happen less frequently. Depending on the timescale/zoom of the timeline, the underlying timeline library may still allow overlaps for low values of this parameter -- for a fully "flat" timeline use the `ribbon` style. `0` disables clustering entirely. Only used in the `stack` style of timeline. |
| `controls`             |         | Configuration for the timeline controls. See below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `events_media_type`    | `all`   | Whether to show only events with `clips`, events with `snapshots` or `all` events. When `all` is used, `clips` are favored for events that have both a clip and a snapshot.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `format`               |         | Configuration for the timeline time & date format. See below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `show_recordings`      | `true`  | Whether to show recordings on the timeline (specifically: which hours have any recorded content).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `style`                | `stack` | Whether the timeline should show events as a single flat `ribbon` or a `stack` of events that are clustered using the `clustering_threshold`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `window_seconds`       | `3600`  | The length of the default timeline in seconds. By default, 1 hour (`3600` seconds) is shown in the timeline.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

## `controls`

Configure the controls for the `timeline` view.

```yaml
timeline:
  controls:
    # [...]
```

| Option       | Default | Description                                                            |
| ------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `thumbnails` |         | Configures how thumbnails are shown on the `timeline` view. See below. |

## `format`

Configure the date and time format for the `timeline` view.

```yaml
timeline:
  format:
    # [...]
```

| Option | Default | Description                                                                     |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `24h`  | `true`  | If `true` shows time in 24-hour clock. If `false` otherwise uses 12-hour clock. |

### `thumbnails`

Configures how thumbnails are shown on the timeline.

```yaml
timeline:
  controls:
    thumbnails:
      # [...]
```

| Option                  | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `mode`                  | `none`  | Whether to show the thumbnail carousel `below` the media, `above` the media, in a drawer to the `left` or `right` of the media or to hide it entirely (`none`). |
| `show_details`          | `false` | Whether to show event details (e.g. duration, start time, object detected, etc) alongside the thumbnail.                                                        |
| `show_download_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the download control on each thumbnail.                                                                                                         |
| `show_favorite_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the favorite ('star') control on each thumbnail.                                                                                                |
| `show_timeline_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the timeline ('target') control on each thumbnail.                                                                                              |
| `size`                  | `100`   | The size of the thumbnails in the thumbnail carousel in pixels. Must be &gt;= `75` and &lt;= `300`.                                                             |

## Fully expanded reference

[](common/expanded-warning.md ':include')

```yaml
timeline:
  style: stack
  clustering_threshold: 3
  events_media_type: all
  show_recordings: true
  window_seconds: 3600
  format:
    24h: true
  controls:
    thumbnails:
      mode: left
      size: 100
      show_details: true
      show_download_control: true
      show_favorite_control: true
      show_timeline_control: true
```

Commit message:

feat: Add support for Frigate reviews / detections [initial PR] (#2315)
- Add support for Frigate reviews / detections.
 - Add support for GenAI metadata.
- Significant internal refactor to more flexible "UnifiedQuery" to allow
mixing cameras with simple metadata and review metadata (e.g. a timeline
view of a Frigate camera with reviews, and a Reolink camera with simple
metadata).
 - Add support for folder media as camera media.

There are a few more PRs to commit prior to this going live, but
commiting this for now due to the scale of the change.

BREAKING CHANGE: `media_type` and `events_type` are retired under
`live`, `viewer` and `timeline` configuration sections, instead media
type is associated (once) with the camera under `media`.

docs/configuration/timeline.md, after:

# `timeline`

Configures a `timeline` view used to show the timing sequence of events and
recordings across multiple cameras.

```yaml
timeline:
  # [...]
```

You can interact with the timeline in a number of ways:

- Clicking on an event/review will take you to the media viewer for that event/review.
- Clicking on the "background", or a camera title, will take you to the recordings for that camera (seeking to the clicked time).
- Clicking on the time axis will take you to recordings for all cameras (seeking to the clicked time).

| Option                 | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `clustering_threshold` | `3`     | The minimum number of overlapping events to allow prior to clustering/grouping them. Higher numbers cause clustering to happen less frequently. Depending on the timescale/zoom of the timeline, the underlying timeline library may still allow overlaps for low values of this parameter -- for a fully "flat" timeline use the `ribbon` style. `0` disables clustering entirely. Only used in the `stack` style of timeline. |
| `controls`             |         | Configuration for the timeline controls. See below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `format`               |         | Configuration for the timeline time & date format. See below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `show_recordings`      | `true`  | Whether to show recordings on the timeline (specifically: which hours have any recorded content).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `style`                | `stack` | Whether the timeline should show events as a single flat `ribbon` or a `stack` of events that are clustered using the `clustering_threshold`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `window_seconds`       | `3600`  | The length of the default timeline in seconds. By default, 1 hour (`3600` seconds) is shown in the timeline.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

## `controls`

Configure the controls for the `timeline` view.

```yaml
timeline:
  controls:
    # [...]
```

| Option       | Default | Description                                                            |
| ------------ | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `thumbnails` |         | Configures how thumbnails are shown on the `timeline` view. See below. |

## `format`

Configure the date and time format for the `timeline` view.

```yaml
timeline:
  format:
    # [...]
```

| Option | Default | Description                                                                     |
| ------ | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `24h`  | `true`  | If `true` shows time in 24-hour clock. If `false` otherwise uses 12-hour clock. |

### `thumbnails`

Configures how thumbnails are shown on the timeline.

```yaml
timeline:
  controls:
    thumbnails:
      # [...]
```

| Option                  | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `mode`                  | `none`  | Whether to show the thumbnail carousel `below` the media, `above` the media, in a drawer to the `left` or `right` of the media or to hide it entirely (`none`). |
| `show_details`          | `false` | Whether to show event details (e.g. duration, start time, object detected, etc) alongside the thumbnail.                                                        |
| `show_download_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the download control on each thumbnail.                                                                                                         |
| `show_favorite_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the favorite ('star') control on each thumbnail.                                                                                                |
| `show_review_control`   | `true`  | Whether to show the review ('check') control on each thumbnail.                                                                                                 |
| `show_timeline_control` | `true`  | Whether to show the timeline ('target') control on each thumbnail.                                                                                              |
| `size`                  | `100`   | The size of the thumbnails in the thumbnail carousel in pixels. Must be &gt;= `75` and &lt;= `300`.                                                             |

## Fully expanded reference

[](common/expanded-warning.md ':include')

```yaml
timeline:
  style: stack
  clustering_threshold: 3
  show_recordings: true
  window_seconds: 3600
  format:
    24h: true
  controls:
    thumbnails:
      mode: left
      size: 100
      show_details: true
      show_download_control: true
      show_favorite_control: true
      show_review_control: true
      show_timeline_control: true
```
