docs/configuration/actions/templates.md, before:

# Templates

Before actions are executed, template values (if present) are replaced within
each action. This allows a variety of Home Assistant data to be automatically
populated in your actions, as well as some Advanced Camera Card data.

## Stock Templates

The Advanced Camera Card uses
[ha-nunjucks](https://github.com/Nerwyn/ha-nunjucks) to process templates.
Consult its documentation for the wide variety of different template values
supported.

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-home-assistant-state) that
accesses Home Assistant state.

## Custom Templates

Custom template values must be proceeded by `advanced_camera_card` (or `acc` for
short).

| Template | Replaced with                                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `camera` | The currently selected camera.                     |
| `view`   | The current [view](../view.md?id=supported-views). |

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-advanced-camera-card-state) that
accesses Advanced Camera Card state.

## Triggers

If the action is called by an [Advanced Camera Card
Automation](../automations.md), additional data is available representing the
current and prior state of whatever triggered the action.

Trigger template values must be proceeded by `advanced_camera_card.trigger` (or
`acc.trigger` for short).

| Template       | Replaced with                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `camera.to`    | For [camera conditions](../conditions.md?id=camera), the currently selected camera.               |
| `camera.from`  | For [camera conditions](../conditions.md?id=camera), the previously selected camera.              |
| `view.to`      | For [view conditions](../conditions.md?id=view), the currently selected view.                     |
| `view.from`    | For [view conditions](../conditions.md?id=view), the previously selected view.                    |
| `state.entity` | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the entity state that triggered the condition. |
| `state.to`     | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the current state of the entity.               |
| `state.from`   | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the previous state of the entity.              |

!> If an action is triggered with multiple [state
conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), only data from the last listed state
condition is available.

Please [request](https://github.com/dermotduffy/advanced-camera-card/issues) if
you need data from additional conditions.

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-trigger-state) that accesses
trigger state.

Commit message:

feat: Add `or`, `and` and `not` condition types (#1980)
[skip ci]

docs/configuration/actions/templates.md, after:

# Templates

Before actions are executed, template values (if present) are replaced within
each action. This allows a variety of Home Assistant data to be automatically
populated in your actions, as well as some Advanced Camera Card data.

## Stock Templates

The Advanced Camera Card uses
[ha-nunjucks](https://github.com/Nerwyn/ha-nunjucks) to process templates.
Consult its documentation for the wide variety of different template values
supported.

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-home-assistant-state) that
accesses Home Assistant state.

## Custom Templates

Custom template values must be proceeded by `advanced_camera_card` (or `acc` for
short).

| Template | Replaced with                                      |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `camera` | The currently selected camera.                     |
| `view`   | The current [view](../view.md?id=supported-views). |

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-advanced-camera-card-state) that
accesses Advanced Camera Card state.

## Triggers

If the action is called by an [Advanced Camera Card
Automation](../automations.md), additional data is available representing the
current and prior state of whatever triggered the action.

Trigger template values must be proceeded by `advanced_camera_card.trigger` (or
`acc.trigger` for short).

| Template       | Replaced with                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `camera.to`    | For [camera conditions](../conditions.md?id=camera), the currently selected camera.               |
| `camera.from`  | For [camera conditions](../conditions.md?id=camera), the previously selected camera.              |
| `view.to`      | For [view conditions](../conditions.md?id=view), the currently selected view.                     |
| `view.from`    | For [view conditions](../conditions.md?id=view), the previously selected view.                    |
| `state.entity` | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the entity state that triggered the condition. |
| `state.to`     | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the current state of the entity.               |
| `state.from`   | For [state conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), the previous state of the entity.              |

!> If an action is triggered with multiple [state
conditions](../conditions.md?id=state), only data from the last listed state
condition is available.

!> If you use an [`or`](../conditions.md?id=or) condition, only the trigger data
for the first matching trigger will be included.

Please [request](https://github.com/dermotduffy/advanced-camera-card/issues) if
you need data from additional conditions.

See [an example](../../examples.md?id=accessing-trigger-state) that accesses
trigger state.
